ASSIGNMENT TITLE: Visualisation project

UNIVERSITY OF EAST ANGLIA 
School of Computing Sciences

DATE SET: Friday 26 January 2018
DATE & TIME OF SUBMISSION : Friday 11 May time tbc
RETURN DATE: Friday 25 May
ASSIGNMENT VALUE: 75%
SET BY: D. J. Smith
CHECKED BY: O. Buckley
  
Aim:
- Introduce students to a wide range of static and dynamic visualisation techniques,
- Give students experience of developing static and dynamic visualisations,
- Provide a framework for determining appropriate techniques given a data set and problem specification.

Learning outcomes:
- Demonstrate knowledge of a range of visualisation techniques,
- Understand the appropriate use of the techniques with which they are familiar and when to apply them to a variety of data sets
- Develop static and dynamic visualisations

Assessment criteria:
1. The main emphasis in marking will be on the demonstrated ability to analyse a visualisation problem, 
2. identifying the technical issues that must be addressed, 
3. the current state of knowledge, 
4. relevant technologies that are currently available or are in development.

￼￼￼￼Description of assignment:
The aim of this project is to apply your knowledge of information visualisation to create an effective and compelling visualisation of a data set of your choice. You will need to select a data set that people will find interesting and intriguing, or – better - a data set with a clearly identified set of people who care deeply about that data. The choice of a good data set is important to your project.
A good project should consist of visualization designs and software that implements the designs. Interaction is key in information visualization, and it is difficult to understand the interaction issues in your project without a running system. User testing and evaluation is outside the scope of the project. You are free to choose any software development toolkit and graphics/visualization support library that you want to help build your system. (You cannot build on top of something that constructs a visualization for you, however, such as Tableau.) Your visualisation should be web-deployable (with an informative or a monitoring focus), or for a situated display.

The milestones in this project are:
1. Research, choose and get approval for a suitable data set,
2. Work up prototypes of different design ideas and present them to the class in a lab session,
to get feedback on your design,
3. Give a demonstration of your project,
4. Submit a copy of the final system.
  
Hints for a successful project:
It is extremely important to select an interesting problem with data that some group of people will care deeply about. Consider combining different data sets to produce a new composite data set of special interest. Allow plenty of time to focus on data acquisition. If you do not have your data nailed down by the prototype display session then you will be in deep trouble.
Most of the really successful projects are in one of two styles, the single innovative visual representation or the multi-view, effective existing technique coordinated system.

Broadly, there are two main styles of project:
1. A single (or a couple) view which is an innovative technique or visual metaphor, where the focus is on developing a creative new visual representation.
2. Multiple coordinated views using well-known visualization techniques, perhaps customized a little for your problem. Typically, the interface will have nice filtering and interactive selection. The emphasis in this type of project is to create a sound, functional system that is helpful for data analysis and understanding. It is important to have coordinated views that work well together and provide different perspectives on the data.

Required:
1. A flyer (1-2 pages, A4) summarising your visualisation, to be distributed to the audience:
The flyer should contain a summary of the visualisation, its main features and the intended audience, and a discussion of the design principles and the design decisions you've made.
2. A presentation or demonstration of your visualisation (15 minutes) followed by questions:
Your visualisation should contain a description of the data sources you've used (with appropriate links/references), together with a discussion of their limitations and any noteworthy features and particular issues you've encountered (compatibility of measurement bases, ...).
3) A copy of my visualisations, submitted via Blackboard in a single zip file.
